==== Summary

Provide technical leadership to an engineering team in the domain of supply chain risk analysis.  Intertek provides testing and certification services to the manufacturing sector.  I interpret the results of the findings and communicate directly to stakeholders (clients, internal organization, public)

I have built solutions for:
  - Business process automation
  - Data pipelines
  - Web-based tools for supply chain risk assessment
  - Scraping web repositories to keep research up to date 

==== Professional Experience

Intertek
Global Restricted Substances - Ottawa, Canada
Engineer
October 2009 - present
Intertek is a global auditing, testing, and certification service provider. Designed and implemented a
configurable risk analysis platform for worldwide chemical regulatory compliance. Mine and analyze
data to keep up to date on enforcement and risk trends. Automate business processes. Mentor junior
team members.

Ageus Solutions
Ottawa, Canada
Engineer
January 2005 - October 2009
Ageus Solutions was a successful independent consulting startup which was integrated into Intertek
Health and Environmental after acquisition. One of the founders of the company. Served on board of
Directors and as a corporate officer. Responsible for legal due diligence during M&A . Designed core
analytical services and directed team of regulatory researchers.

Nortel Networks
Optical Components - Ottawa, Canada
IC Designer
June 2000 - December 2004
The former Nortel Optical Components Group designed and fabricated GaAs ICs for use in optical long
haul equipment. Analyzed integrated circuits and discrete semiconductor devices for root-cause of
failure. Assembled and ran laboratory at minimal cost during downsizing. Experimentally demon-
strated recurring failure mechanisms. Advised manufacturing operations to implement corrective
action.

==== Skills

Key Technologies:


Applications:


==== Professional Projects

Risk Analysis Application 
Purpose: Analyze a client's supply chain for material risks.  Machine learning algorithm determines the types of materials based on text.
Renders a tabular report with recommended testing plan or design revisions, to assist a material science SME.  For a complex product, this allows a client to apply chemical testing in a cost-effective manner.
Results: Reduced a multi-week engineering workflow to hours.  XXX successful customer-projects to date.
Technology: Python, SQL, Javascript

Material Risk Knowledge Base
Purpose:  Periodically mines product recall and litigation repositories to obtain up-to-date chemical infraction data set.  Cleans and transforms
raw HTML and XML, processes free text, and stores results in SQL repository.
Results: Intertek maintains an industry-leading knowledge base on exactly what regulated chemicals are used, and in what types of products.
Technology: Python (Pandas, Requests, NLTK), Java, SQL

ETL Pipelines 
Purpose: Automates customers' product design encodings and results of conformity assessments from various sources.  Maps schemas, cleans data, stores in engineering SQL database 
Results: Intertek is able to accept product conformity data from in-house sources, third-party service providers, or customers, and deliver a consistent, repeatable analysis product.
Technology: Python, SQL

==== Academic & Personal Projects

Value-Investor Stock Anaylzer
Purpose: Stock-market algorithms are ubiquitous, but I built this tool to apply Benjamin Graham/Warren Buffet Style fundamentals analysis at a time when "value invesing" was out of style.  It is essentially a regression learner which trains on fundamentals, predicting opportunity five-year returns.  It uses the Shiny framework to provide the user with a convenient web UI.
Results: Beat the TSX very nicely.
Technology: R, SQL, Javascript

Carleton Honors Project
Purpose:  Uses Natural Language Processing to extract product structure and composition from free text obtained from industrial designs. Implemented in C++ .
Result: Portions of this academic project were found to be suitable for deployment in an industrial setting (I donated them to Intertek's Risk Analysis Application)
Technology: C++, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, NLTK API (As part of the academic requirement, I wrote the NLP from scratch in C++)

Udacity Deep-Learning Project
Purpose: Classify the Oxford "Flowers" dataset by species using a convolutional neural network 
Result: <>
Technology: Pytorch, Deep neural networks, Computer vision

Udacity NLP Pipeline
Purpose: 
Result:
Technology: NLTK

Udacity Supervised Learning Project
Purpose: 
Technology: 


==== Education & Training

Carleton University Ottawa, Canada
Bachelor of Computer Science, Honors 2018
With High Distinction. Data management, AI, and software engineering. Web and mobile application
development. Computer Vision. Awarded Senate Medal for Outstanding Academic Achievement

University of Manitoba
B.Sc. (Electrical Engineering), 1999
Focused on microelectronics and VLSI design. Acquired proficiency in IC design tools, statistics and
mathematics, MATLAB , and C++

Udacity
Data Science Nanodegree, pending
CRISP-DM PRocess, Supervised learning, Unsupervised Learning, Deep Learning, Stakeholder Communication, 
Experimental Design, Software Engineering, ETL Pipelines, NLP Pipelines

=== Other Skills (Academic)
OpenCV
Tensorflow